You can set up SpecFlow+ Runner to execute your tests whenever a build is created on your build server. The following covers the settings necessary to use SpecFlow+ with either TFS 2015 or TeamCity. For more information on the build settings in either TFS or TeamCity, please refer to the respective documentation.

#TFS 2015

To configure your build process in TFS 2015 to execute tests using SpecFlow+ Runner:

1. Open TFS and switch to your build definition.
2. Click on **Add build step** to add a new step to the build definition. Click on **Test** in the navigation pane on the left and click on **Add** next to "Visual Studio Test".
3. Configure the build step as follows:  
  * Enter the path to your **Test Assembly**
  * If you are using both MSTest and SpecFlow+ Runner, enter the path to SpecRun.exe in the **Path to Custom Test Adapters** field. If you do not enter the path here, only your MSTest tests will be executed as TFS cannot find SpecRun.exe.
  * By default, TFS looks for a profile named TFS.srprofile to execute your tests; if none is found, TFS uses default.srprofile instead. If you have changed the name of your profile, you need to enter the name of your profile in your [[run settings|Configuring-SpecFlowPlus-Runner-Visual-Studio-Test-Explorer-Integration#specflow-runner-settings]] (`<Profile>` element) and enter the path to your `.runsettings` file in the **Run Settings File** field.
4. Save your changes.

Once the test run is complete, links to the report file and logs generated by SpecFlow+ Runner are available from the test run as attachments.

#TeamCity


To configure your build process in TeamCity to execute tests using SpecFlow+ Runner:

1. Open your project's build steps.
2. Click on **Add build step**.
3. Choose "Command Line" from the dialogue.
4. Configure the build step as follows:  
  * **Run:** Executable with parameters
  * **Command executable:** Enter the path to SpecRun.exe here
  * **Command parameters:** Enter the command line parameters for SpecRun.exe here. Use the `BuildServerRun` option and include `/buildserver:teamcity`. More details on the commanand line options can be found [[here|https://github.com/techtalk/SpecFlowPlus-Resources/wiki/SpecFlowPlus-Runner-Command-Line]].
5. Click on **Save**.